Add OpenLIT to framework integrations (#928)
qdrant/landing_page: qdrant-landing/content/documentation/frameworks/openlit.md

---
title: OpenLIT
weight: 3100
---

# OpenLIT

[OpenLIT](https://github.com/openlit/openlit) is an OpenTelemetry-native LLM Application Observability tool and includes OpenTelemetry auto-instrumentation to monitor Qdrant and provide insights to improve database operations and application performance.

> For more information on how to use OpenLIT, see the [OpenLIT docs](https://docs.openlit.io/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

As per https://github.com/qdrant/landing_page/pull/928/files#r1622001746

This page assumes you're using `qdrant-client` version 1.7.3 or above.

## Usage

### Step 1: Install OpenLIT

Open your command line or terminal and run:

```bash
pip install openlit
```

### Step 2: Initialize OpenLIT in your Application
Integrating OpenLIT into LLM applications is straightforward with just **two lines of code**: 

```python
import openlit

openlit.init()
```

> To forward telemetry data to an HTTP OTLP endpoint, such as the OpenTelemetry Collector, set the `otlp_endpoint` parameter with the desired endpoint. Alternatively, you can configure the endpoint by setting the `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT` environment variable as recommended in the OpenTelemetry documentation.
> 
> <aside role="status">
> 💡 Info: If you don't provide `otlp_endpoint` function argument or set the `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT` environment variable, OpenLIT directs the trace directly to your console, which can be useful during development.
> 
> To send telemetry to OpenTelemetry backends requiring authentication, set the `otlp_headers` parameter with its desired value. Alternatively, you can configure the endpoint by setting the `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_HEADERS` environment variable as recommended in the OpenTelemetry documentation.
> </aside>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenLIT directs the trace to your console by default. To forward telemetry data to an HTTP OTLP endpoint, configure the `otlp_endpoint` parameter or the `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT` environment variable.

For OpenTelemetry backends requiring authentication, use the `otlp_headers` parameter or the `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_HEADERS` environment variable with the required values.
```

## Further Reading

With the LLM Observability data now being collected by OpenLIT, the next step is to visualize and analyze this data to get insights Qdrant's performance, behavior, and identify areas of improvement.

To begin exploring your LLM Application's performance data within the OpenLIT UI, please see the [Quickstart Guide](https://docs.openlit.io/latest/quickstart).

If you want to integrate and send the generated metrics and traces to your existing observability tools like Promethues+Jaeger, Grafana or more, refer to the [Official Documentation for OpenLIT Connections](https://docs.openlit.io/latest/connections/intro) for detailed instructions.

> ## Support
> 
> For any question or issue with integration you can reach out to the OpenLIT team on [Slack](https://join.slack.com/t/openlit/shared_invite/zt-2etnfttwg-TjP_7BZXfYg84oAukY8QRQ) or via [email](mailto:contact@openlit.io).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Same as https://github.com/qdrant/landing_page/pull/928#discussion_r1621996457

---
title: OpenLIT
weight: 3100
---

# OpenLIT

> [OpenLIT](https://github.com/openlit/openlit) is an OpenTelemetry-native LLM Application Observability tool and includes OpenTelemetry auto-instrumention for Qdrant with just a single line of code helping you ensure your applications are monitored seamlessly, providing critical insights to improve performance, operations and reliability. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[OpenLIT](https://github.com/openlit/openlit) is an OpenTelemetry-native LLM Application Observability tool and includes OpenTelemetry auto-instrumentation to monitor Qdrant and provide insights to improve operations and reliability. 
```

> For more information on how to use OpenLIT, see the [OpenLIT docs](https://docs.openlit.io/).

Reviewer: I recommend creating a `## Further Reading` section at the end of the page to aggregate all the links to external docs. Similar to the other documentation pages.

Reviewer: I guess this was missed. I don't see it.

> 
> ![OpenLIT Connections Banner](https://github.com/openlit/.github/blob/main/profile/assets/github-readme-connections-banner.png?raw=true)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

This page assumes you're using `qdrant-client` version 1.7.3 or above.

## Usage

### Step 1: Install OpenLIT

Open your command line or terminal and run:

```bash
pip install openlit
```

### Step 2: Initialize OpenLIT in your Application
Integrating OpenLIT into LLM applications is straightforward. Start monitoring for your LLM Application with just **two lines of code**: 

```python
import openlit

openlit.init()
```

To forward telemetry data to an HTTP OTLP endpoint, such as the OpenTelemetry Collector, set the `otlp_endpoint` parameter with the desired endpoint. Alternatively, you can configure the endpoint by setting the `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT` environment variable as recommended in the OpenTelemetry documentation.

> 💡 Info: If you don't provide `otlp_endpoint` function argument or set the `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT` environment variable, OpenLIT directs the trace directly to your console, which can be useful during development.

> To send telemetry to OpenTelemetry backends requiring authentication, set the `otlp_headers` parameter with its desired value. Alternatively, you can configure the endpoint by setting the `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_HEADERS` environment variable as recommended in the OpenTelemetry documentation.

Reviewer: You can use https://github.com/qdrant/landing_page/blob/e3117ff503ca51c5a1b3a768bf56da9b6e685d8a/qdrant-landing/content/documentation/quick-start.md?plain=1#L131 for notices.

### Step 3: Visualize and Optimize!

> ![](https://github.com/openlit/.github/blob/main/profile/assets/openlit-client-1.png?raw=true)

Reviewer: Please add assets to the /static directory and include relative links.
